In this video you're going to learn how to create an email campaign with MailChimp so that you can promote
your blog post to your email lists so you can promote plaudit products market surveys etc..
The process is all the same and it's really really simple to do.
So what you want to do is log into your MailChimp Kent and then go ahead and click Create campaign.
And we want to select Create an email campaign or what you want to do then is put in the campaign name.
Now I always recommend that your campaign name be the same as the subject line that you're going to
be using for the e-mail.
So I will just put in an example here that capture emails.
What I had a Web site and click Begin and I'm going to by default this will show and send it to your
entire list and I'd recommend that you do that if you've the smallest if you've a very big list.
You can start to segmented and if you want and send Tony this e-mail to certain segments of your audience.
Look for the most part you'll probably be sending it to the entire list and you can leave that selected
and then click next.
Now in here we want to fill out a little bit more of the campaign info.
So as I said I'd recommend that you use the campaign name the same as the subject line.
You can do that at those if you want.
Next thing you want to add some previous tags and this snippet will appear in the inbox after the subject
line.
So what you might do is if you've quite a long subject line this probably won't even show in the inbox.
But if you've got a very short e-mail sit reclined you can add this in.
And again you want to think about this in the same way as the subject line.
Is this going to help people open the e-mail.
That's essentially what you want to do.
So I can say learn a really simple way
to capture e-mails
eating a Web site.
So again kind of encouraging people to see the benefits and then I'll show them how to.
Once they open the e-mail then the from name.
And this is my kind of personal e-mail list solidus leave it as my name but it could be the company
name you want to put in your From address as well.
And then here you can see that there's number of tracking options.
Probably the most important one that you want to enable is Google Analytics tracking it will walk you
through the steps here to set that up.
But if you haven't what you can do is go ahead and click save an excess and then you can come say to
your dashboard in a new tab.
You can come up to I can't integrations.
And then you can just connect to Google Analytics there.
And the advantage of doing this and enabling this integration for this email campaign is that in your
Google Analytics reports in the campaign reports you're going to be able to see how many people actually
click through to your Web site from this specific e-mail.
And that is incredibly important to know.
So you can check maybe the next day OK how many people actually ended up on my site because of this
e-mail.
So that's really important to Nabl if you want to track that.
Now once you've got that done you can click Next on in here.
And there are a ton of templates that you can select.
There are some really fantastic professional looking ones you can drop images in.
You can do all sorts of stuff.
For example you can use either.
I'm just going to use a simple text and to be honest this is the type of e-mail that I send that most
often as well I think it just is a little bit more casual seems a little bit more personable.
So what you want to do is maybe adjust the first line in the you know and this can often be just the
subject line again.
And then what you can do is just the text as well so I can say something like Click below to learn how
to set up.
So what I've said there is click below to learn how to set up a free learning page.
MailChimp so you can collect emails right and any web sites.
Now what I want to do is make sure that I put the link on what I can do is just actually paste a link
in there if I wanted to.
So I'll just say
what we really want to do now.
Is.
Just make sure that we actually put the link in there so insert the link
and insert that there that goes blue.
So we're all good to go down here below will actually be the information that you've put on your MailChimp
account in terms of your physical address.
And this is required just for anti-spam measures and that's why MailChimp has included it there.
Also you can see the option for people to subscribe which is I think required it's definitely best practice
because you don't want to annoy people make it easy for them to unsubscribe if they want.
And once you get that done you can seek a quick save and close and what you can also do is actually
input any of these buttons.
For example I could put a button there and change the text here and say something like learn more from
what I can also do then is just actually put in
I can put in the link there as well.
Maybe I'll do that because it just grabs the attention a little bit more.
So save and close that and I will just need that or text again just remove that.
And then what we want to do is click save and close.
Now we can click Next on.
Looks like we're all set to go now.
We can see we've got the green ticks against all of the different parts.
Now a very important thing that you want to do before you go ahead and send that any e-mails is just
make sure that everything looks OK.
So what I'd recommend you do is go ahead and send a test email and you can send that to your own personal
accounts and really you just want to look at this e-mail from the perspective of somebody who's going
to get it into their e-mail account.
So to do that you want to log in.
Cheere e-mail account
and then you might have to wait a couple of minutes for this to come through.
And you can see it there it says test here but it's not going to say that in the real e-mail and how
to capture e-mails with a Web site.
So ask yourself what I open that is that a goodness subject line should I maybe changes.
You can see the snippet text here as well.
Is that being cut off.
Is there more important information that could move to the start of that again really ask yourself would
you open this e-mail because if you're saying I don't know or maybe not well then maybe can come back
and work on this because that's critical to people even clicking through your Web site.
So once you're happy with the subject line or have spotted something you can improve.
You can open the mail.
Check the spelling maybe read it aloud a couple times.
Make sure the information here is accurate.
And most importantly make sure this link is working.
Now I just put in an example in there which you want to make sure that it's going to the right page
because that's one of the most important things.
So if there are any things that you feel you could improve upon or need to it you can just come in and
edit different sections there and once you're happy you can actually go ahead and Schenkel the e-mail
if you want.
So when you're thinking about sending out your e-mail you want to think about OK who are your audience.
If you've a global audience you want to send that at a time that really hits the maximum amount of people.
For example I'm in Dublin Ireland.
Usually I send my e-mails about five o'clock in the afternoon that's usually about 9:00 o'clock in San
Francisco by lunchtime in New York and that allows me to cover the maximum amount of people that I can
from my audience.
You don't want to be sending your e-mails when everybody's in bed etcetera.
So if it's hard for you to manage the time you can schedule ish or you can go ahead and click send now
and then you can just go ahead and click send to send that.
And that is really how you create an email campaign in MailChimp.
It is a really important thing to do if you want to drive Web site traffic from your email list or drive
sales.
So it's a simple process and it's really the same for whatever objective that you have.
And the most important thing once again that I would recommend is that you go ahead and send that test
email every time.
I guarantee you you're going to spot a couple of things that you could improve upon or a couple of mistakes
at added before you click the final send button.